[dramatic music plays]
[explosions]
[spaceship whooshes]
-[electricity zapping]
-[clattering]
[Starscream] We're going down!
-We need to evacuate!
-[Megatron growls] No!
-Shields! Get me shields!
-[alarm blaring]
[explosions]
-[all grunting]
-[siren blares]
[Unicron] You will suffer
for this moment of treachery.
[Galvatron grunts]
No!
There's still a way.
There's still…
Use this.
[Galvatron screams]
[loud boom]
[Galvatron groaning]
[gasps] No.
I'll find a way.
[resounding boom]
[rumbling]
[Unicron]
You cannot save yourself from me.
I am as inevitable as destiny.
[sinister music plays]
[Galvatron grunts softly]
I'll find a way. You hear me?
-[music crescendos]
-[Galvatron] You hear me?
[shouts] I'll find a…
[Megatron gasps]
[electricity crackling]
[Megatron grunts]
[Matrix whirring]
[theme music plays]
[Prime groans]
[grunts]
Autobots…
status report.
[Ratchet grunts]
Hmm.
We're alive, so that's something.
[Hound groans]
-Navigation isn't responding.
-[console beeping]
It looks like we crashed
into one of those organic planets.
[Hound]
At least we've got a great view, huh?
-Wheeljack?
-[Wheeljack grunts]
-[metal clatters]
-What's that?
-Oh… right.
-[console beeping]
[console trills]
[Wheeljack]
We're in some sort of unstable mountain
made up of rock and molten rock.
How unstable?
Oh, massively.
-One wrong move and…
-[static]
[groans] We got ship-wide systems failure.
Trying to reroute emergency power
to the bridge.
-[Prime sighs]
-Optimus…
I am all right, Ratchet.
[groans] Tend to…
[groans]
…the others first.
Huh? That's odd.
Hmm…
-[Teletraan] Defense systems…
-Uh… Wheeljack?
-[Wheeljack grunts]
-Teletraan-1 isn't responding.
-[Teletraan speaking indistinctly]
-But it sounds like he's…
-[Teletraan] Defense systems…
-Mumbling?
-[Teletraan]…offline.
-[Teletraan mumbles]
-[Wheeljack] Huh?
We have survived our crash.
We must assume Megatron
and his forces have done the same.
What we do in these first precious moments
may determine the fate of Cybertron.
-[loud zap]
-Ow! [groans]
Wheeljack…
focus your attention
on repairing our long-range sensors.
Our priority remains
finding the location of the Allspark.
You got it.
Hey…
[static]
-[monitor trills]
-[Bumblebee] What's that?
I'm on it. I'm on it.
Where's he going?
[grunts]
-[electricity crackling]
-Come on.
-[rat squeaks]
-[Wheeljack grunts] What?
[rat gasps]
[Sideswipe grunts] Incoming!
[footsteps pounding]
[Sideswipe and Prowl grunt]
[Hound grunting]
[metal scraping]
[rhino growls]
-[engine revs]
-[tires screech]
-[Ironhide gasps]
-[tiger roars]
[Ironhide grunting]
-[Arcee grunts]
-[tiger roaring]
[Mirage gasps]
[breathing heavily]
[cheetah growls softly]
-[Bumblebee] It's not working.
-[cheetah growls]
[Bumblebee grunting]
[Prime grunts]
[cheetah grunts]
[gorilla roars]
-[gorilla grunting]
-[Prime groaning]
[groans]
[gorilla roaring]
[Prime grunts]
[blades swish and clang]
What in all of Primus?
[cheetah grunts]
They're like us.
No!
[growls]
We're nothing like Nemesis!
The Decepticon ship?
-[gorilla bot grunts]
-[blades clang]
Did Megatron send you?
[gorilla bot grunts]
[clang]
Tell your forces to stand down, Nemesis.
[groans] I am not…
[groans]
I am Optimus Prime.
What?
Leader of the Autobots.
[groans softly]
[grunts]
That's not possible.
If you are who you claim to be…
[zapping]
…show me the Matrix of Leadership.
[Prime inhales deeply]
[sighs]
Prove you are a Prime!
Show me the Matrix!
[Prime groans softly]
-[electricity crackling]
-[Prime groans]
[grunts]
-[weakened groans]
-[electricity crackles]
Optimus!
[Ratchet] Out of my way!
[birds chirping]
-[loud whoosh]
-[leaves rustle]
[birds chirping]
[whirring]
[beeping]
[muffled thud]
-[loud thud]
-I don't have time for your excuses.
-Get me engines now!
-[console trills]
[Decepticon grunts]
The longer this takes,
the longer Prime has the advantage.
I want to find the Allspark,
get off this miserable planet,
and save all of Cybertron.
I cannot do that
if this ship cannot fly!
[Astrotrain] Lord Megatron,
we can repair the ship, but it will--
[Starscream] Send me, Megatron.
[footsteps approaching]
I'll scour every corner of this world
until I find the Allspark.
Do you really think I'd risk this mission
by relying entirely on you, Starscream?
-[Starscream gasps]
-Lord Megatron.
-[Starscream sighs]
-What is it, Soundwave?
Laserbeak reports
intruders have entered the perimeter.
[Megatron] Hmm. Autobots.
[Soundwave] Negative.
[Starscream grunts]
So, where are your intruders?
[jet engine whooshes]
[pounding footsteps approaching]
[Astrotrain grunts]
[all grunt nervously]
[pounding intensifies]
[roars ferociously]
[Starscream grunts nervously]
Hold.
It is you, isn't it?
Yes!
Lord Megatron!
At last.
[dinosaur bot growls deferentially]
[roars]
Megatron,
greatest leader of the Decepticons,
my namesake,
whose destiny lies in an endless war.
That is, until now,
thanks to this.
[ominous music plays]
[music intensifies]
[music fades out]
[Prime groaning]
[groans]
How do you feel, Optimus?
I am all right…
[groans] Prowl.
It is just, something feels strange.
What has become…
[groans]
…of our attackers?
How's their Energon reserves?
[sighs]
It's not enough to repair the Axalon.
Well, hold up.
We're not in the business
of handing out our Energon.
Lucky you.
You don't have enough worth taking.
Let's salvage what we can off this antique
and get out of here.
[Bumblebee grunts]
I've had just about enough of your scrap.
You owe us some answers!
I owe you nothing.
Then I demand answers.
You beasts come in here, try to kill us,
strip our ship for parts, and for what?
[rat bot scoffs]
You say "beast" like it's a bad thing.
[door opens]
If only you could see us as allies,
we would help you
with the technology on our ship.
But if you want our help…
[groans] …you must earn it.
Now… who are you?
It's complicated.
[Prime] In our travels,
we have encountered Quintessons,
bounty hunters,
and old friends.
We have gone through a broken Spacebridge,
survived the Dead Universe,
and crashed on this planet.
I understand complicated.
[gorilla bot] Ah!
So, that's what you did
after you deserted Cybertron?
I did no such thing!
So, you're not the reason
the Allspark was taken off-world?
I did what I had to do
in order to protect--
You stole the Allspark
and left Cybertron to rot!
And while you were apparently
gallivanting through the stars,
we were left to deal with the consequences
of your treachery.
[Prime sighs]
I am on a mission to recover the Allspark
and save Cybertron.
Understand how close we are.
It is here on this planet.
-[gasps] The Allspark is here?
-[tiger bot gasps]
Then that would mean…
[sighs]
It doesn't matter.
It is the only thing that matters.
We are engaged in a fight for our future.
-We have to--
-Our future?
Now you're concerned about everyone else
after you ruined everything!
I'll have you know,
my crew and I
have been stranded on this planet,
locked in constant fighting
against the Predacons.
Now, after cycles,
we have finally gained the upper hand.
We were on our way to end this conflict
when you came crashing out of the sky.
Well, I'm not going to let you
ruin our chances.
Cycles?
How do you even know
what happened to the Allspark?
-Who are you?
-Optimus!
[both] What?
I've received a transmission from Airazor.
She has located Megatron.
If he gets to the Allspark first--
This isn't about you!
This is about our Megatron!
It's about both, unfortunately.
Both?
What are you talking about?
My name is Optimus Primal,
Leader of the Maximals.
We're from your future.
[Megatron] So…
you're from a future
where the Allspark
never returns to Cybertron?
[Predacon Megatron] Without the Allspark,
Cybertron became nearly uninhabitable.
Only the strongest survived,
crawling out of the ruins
of our dead world
as the Maximals and Predacons.
But you traveled specifically
to this time and place.
Why?
Why, for you, Lord Megatron.
So that I could deliver
the Golden Disk to you.
You aren't the first to try,
but what do you expect me to do with it?
We don't know where the Disk came from,
only that it is a relic
containing the complete memoirs
of Megatron.
I have only been able
to decrypt a few minutes.
Enough to know
how to retrace your steps to here,
to this moment.
But that Disk is matched
to your unique Energon signature.
You can listen to it in its entirety.
All your strategies,
all your secrets,
every battle you ever fought
or ever will fight,
it's all there.
You could use it to save the future!
How do I know you have not
manipulated the data on this Disk
for your own benefit?
I understand your suspicions.
I expected nothing less.
But look at me, Lord Megatron.
I am your descendant,
born out of a dead world.
I am the embodiment
of Optimus Prime's failures.
I am living proof
that you were right all along.
[Megatron] Hmm.
Leave us.
[Starscream gasps] What?
You heard me.
[Starscream] Lord Megatron,
as your commanding officer--
[growling] You will obey my orders.
Hmm.
[doors clank]
[weapon clangs]
[metal mechanism chinking]
-[Dinobot] Hmm.
-[footsteps]
[Starscream sighs]
[grumbles softly]
I suppose you are from the future as well?
Then surely you have heard legends
of Air Commander Starscream?
Hmm…
No.
Huh?
You will, poor creature.
You will.
[humphs]
Of all the places in the universe,
the Allspark lands here.
-[faint clattering]
-Disgusting, time-displaced beasts.
Sure. Why not?
And that Golden Disk,
the key to the future.
[grunts]
Megatron will hoard it to himself,
surrounded by sycophants,
like the tyrant he is.
[female bot] You like the sound
of your own voice… don't you?
[Starscream yells]
-Who dares…
-[bot transforms]
[giggling]
I do.
[grumbles softly]
[female bot] What?
Nothing to say
now that you have an audience?
You're one of them?
Oh, I assure you,
I'm my own bot,
much like you.
You don't know me.
[chuckles]
Au contraire.
I have heard the legends
of Air Commander Starscream.
The name's Blackarachnia.
And what do you want, uh, Blackarachnia?
I want to survive.
A difficult task now that we know
the Golden Disk's true power.
[grumbles]
The fate of the future
should be in more capable hands.
Exactly!
Because we both know,
the only thing worse than one Megatron…
Is two Megatrons.
Well, pop my trunk.
Time travel?
Do you know what this means?
That there is a future worth fighting for.
I need to talk to my crew.
Do you think we can trust them?
They could be lying.
What if it's another Quintesson trick?
After everything we've seen,
I'd buy it if he told me
they were Sharkticons.
I believe them.
It will be up to them to determine
if we can trust them.
We have to help them.
Fate has warped time and space
to give us an opportunity
to aid our ancestors
in their darkest hour.
-You're going to let that slip by?
-Hold on. Hold on.
If we do help them get the Allspark,
won't we change the future
and cease to exist?
Theoretically,
the moment we arrived in the past,
we started changing the future
and putting our existence at risk.
But if we do nothing,
our Megatron will make everything worse.
That's why he came to the past
in the first place. Right?
We can't just let that happen.
[female bot over comms]
Falcon to Tiger, do you copy?
Ah. We're here, Airazor.
I've got some interesting
developments over here.
[Tigatron grunts]
-You, too, huh?
-[beeping]
If you're gonna spring an attack,
do it soon 'cause…
-Wait.
-[Tigatron] What?
[Airazor] I've been compromised!
[Tigatron] Airazor!
[jets screech]
[Airazor grunts]
-[yells]
-[Laserbeak squawks]
[Airazor grunts]
[yells]
[grunts]
[footsteps approaching]
[jet engine rumbles]
The things I could accomplish now.
The possibilities.
Soundwave, what is the meaning of this?
[Airazor yelps and groans]
Well, well, well.
It's Airazor.
-Primal's favorite birdie.
-[Airazor transforms]
Hello, Megatron.
And let me guess… [groans]
…you're also Megatron.
[sighs] What are the odds?
Airazor. Hmm.
You will lead us to the Maximals
and… the Autobots.
[menacing music crescendos]
[music fades out]
[theme music plays]